Start 0.5 -> 0.6 Migration guide (#185)
bevyengine/bevy-website: content/learn/book/migration-guides/0.5-0.6/_index.md

+++

### Calling ".system()" on a system is now optional

```rust
// 0.5
fn main() {
    App::build()
        .add_system(first_system.system())
        .add_system(second_system.system())
        .run();
}

// 0.6
fn main() {
    App::build()
        .add_system(first_system)
        .add_system(second_system.system())
        .run();
}
```

When adding a system to Bevy it is no longer necessary to call `.system()` beforehand.
System Configuration Functions like `.label()` or `.config()` can now also be directly called on a system.

```rust
// 0.5
fn main() {
    App::build()
        .add_system(first_system.system().label("FirstSystem"))
        .add_system(second_system.system().after("FirstSystem"))
        .run();
}

// 0.6
fn main() {
    App::build()
        .add_system(first_system.label("FirstSystem"))
        .add_system(second_system.after("FirstSystem"))
        .run();
}
```

### "Light" and "LightBundle" are now "PointLight" and "PointLightBundle"

```rust
// 0.5
commands.spawn_bundle(LightBundle {
    light: Light {
        color: Color::rgb(1.0, 1.0, 1.0),
        depth: 0.1..50.0,
        fov: f32::to_radians(60.0),
        intensity: 200.0,
        range: 20.0,

>     }

Reviewer: this needs a comma

    ..Default::default()
});

// 0.6
commands.spawn_bundle(PointLightBundle {
    light: PointLight {
        color: Color::rgb(1.0, 1.0, 1.0),
        intensity: 200.0,
        range: 20.0,

>     }

Reviewer: this needs a comma

    ..Default::default()
});
```

The {{rust_type(type="struct" crate="bevy_pbr" mod="" version="0.5.0" name="Light" no_mod=true)}} and {{rust_type(type="struct" crate="bevy_pbr" mod="" version="0.5.0" name="LightBundle" no_mod=true)}} were renamed to {{rust_type(type="struct" crate="bevy_pbr" mod="" version="0.6.0" name="PointLight" no_mod=true)}} and {{rust_type(type="struct" crate="bevy_pbr" mod="" version="0.6.0" name="PointLightBundle" no_mod=true)}} to more clearly communicate the behavior of the Light Source.
At the same time the `fov` and `depth` fields were removed from the {{rust_type(type="struct" crate="bevy_pbr" mod="" version="0.6.0" name="PointLight" no_mod=true)}} as they were unused.

<!-- TODO: Remove this comment if https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/2367 is merged.

In addition the {{rust_type(type="struct" crate="bevy_pbr" mod="" version="0.6.0" name="DirectionalLight" no_mod=true)}} and {{rust_type(type="struct" crate="bevy_pbr" mod="" version="0.6.0" name="DirectionalLightBundle" no_mod=true)}} were introduced with `0.6`.

-->

> ### New SystemState and rename old SystemState to SystemMeta

Reviewer: I don't think migration guides should illustrate new functionality (thats what release blog posts are for). If it isn't a breaking change to an existing api (or a change in recommended patterns), it shouldn't be part of the migration guide. There was no old way to represent this type of behavior, so theres nothing to "migrate" imo.

In addition the {{rust_type(type="struct" crate="bevy_pbr" mod="" version="0.6.0" name="DirectionalLight" no_mod=true)}} and {{rust_type(type="struct" crate="bevy_pbr" mod="" version="0.6.0" name="DirectionalLightBundle" no_mod=true)}} were introduced with `0.6`.

-->

### System Param Lifetime Split

The Lifetime of {{rust_type(type="trait" crate="bevy_ecs" mod="system" version="0.5.0" name="SystemParam" no_mod=true)}} was split in two separate Lifetimes.

```rust
// 0.5
type SystemParamAlias<'a> = (Res<'a, AssetServer>, Query<'a, &'static Transform>, Local<'a, i32>);

#[derive(SystemParam)]
struct SystemParamDerive<'a> {
    res: Res<'a, AssetServer>,
    query: Query<'a, &Transform>,
    local: Local<'a, i32>,
}

// 0.6
type SystemParamAlias<'w, 's> = (Res<'w, AssetServer>, Query<'w, 's, &'static Transform>, Local<'s, i32>);

#[derive(SystemParam)]
struct SystemParamDerive<'w, 's> {
    res: Res<'w, AssetServer>,
    query: Query<'w, 's, &'static Transform>,
    local: Local<'s, i32>,
}
```

### QuerySet declare "QueryState" instead of "Query"
<!-- Adapt for ParamSet instead, if https://github.com/bevyengine/bevy/pull/2765 is merged -->

> Due to the [System Param Lifetime Split](#system-param-lifetime-split), {{rust_type(type="struct" crate="bevy_ecs" mod="system" name="QuerySet" version="0.6.0" no_mod=true plural=true)}} now need to specify their Queries with {{rust_type(type="struct" crate="bevy_ecs" mod="query" version="0.6.0" name="QuerySet" no_mod=true)}} instead of {{rust_type(type="struct" crate="bevy_ecs" mod="system" version="0.6.0" name="Query" no_mod=true)}}.

Reviewer 2: There's a typo here it says:

Due to the System Param Lifetime Split, QuerySets now need to specify their Queries with **QuerySet** instead of Query .

It should say:
"... Queries with **QueryState** instead of Query."

    }
}
```

> ### The "Component" Trait does now need to be derived

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### The "Component" trait now needs to be derived
```
